# 2017_10_26_splash-perf-cpp-stl
Slides for SPLASH-I'17.

$ apt-get install latex-beamer
$ pdflatex

Title: "Performance Analysis and Optimization of C++ Standard Libraries"

Session: Optimization & Networks

Abstract: C++ programs are widely used in performance critical applications. The
standard libraries of C++, hence, are expected to be very efficient. However,
experimental results show opportunities for improvements in some of the most
commonly used data structures and algorithms.

We will present the performance analysis work on libc++ and libstdc++ and the
changes we did to these libraries and to the LLVM compiler to optimize the code
using them. This includes our contributions to standard library algorithms like
string::find, libc++::basic streambuf::xsgetn, and libc++::locale. We improved
these suboptimal algorithms, particularly string::find which improved by more
than 10x. Similarly, we enabled the inlining of constructor and destructor of
libc++::string. We will present a systematic analysis of function attributes and
the places where we added missing attributes. We will present a comparative
analysis of libc++ vs. libstdc++ vs. Microsoftâ€™s C++ standard library on
commonly used data structures and algorithms based on our std-benchmark
(https://github.com/hiraditya/std-benchmark), that we started developing to help
analyze standard C++ libraries. We will discuss the performance issues with
libc++::stringstream and libc++::sort that we are currently working on. We will
also present the lessons learned as a result of analyzing C++ standard
libraries, for example:

Iterator based algorithms can lose information and hence, can result in
suboptimal performance. This is exemplified in the implementation of std::rotate
where we can just exchange few pointers should the underlying container is a
doubly linked list e.g., std::list.

The C++ programming language has a limitation that the constructor and
destructor cannot be const qualified which could have facilitated useful
compiler optimizations like removing the destructor of a const std::string when
the string is small enough to be kept on the stack.

